#LyX 2.0 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 413
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass report
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman default
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100

\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_amsmath 1
\use_esint 1
\use_mhchem 1
\use_mathdots 1
\cite_engine basic
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Section
Overview
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Our project is about designing a multiagent system with goal, in doing this
 we will design and implement an engine for designing environments in which
 agents can act.
 The engine will be capable of running multiple agents and they will be
 able to communicate with each other.
 This engine can be used to fill multiple roles such as designing a video
 game, design a world populated only with agents or even be used for testing
 individual agents.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The engine will use a general interface for communicating with agents, so
 that it may work with any language.
 But it will also come with a full implementation of EIS
\begin_inset Foot
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout
Environment Standard Interface
\end_layout

\end_inset

 which is a standardized interface between environments and agents, which
 supported to work with languages such as Goal and Jason.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The engine will be completely modularized using the MVC
\begin_inset Foot
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout
Model view controller
\end_layout

\end_inset

 design pattern, this will tie into our idea of making an engine capable
 of handling different Agent languages, since the model
\begin_inset Foot
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout
inhabitants of the world in the engine
\end_layout

\end_inset

, will not care if they are controlled by a Jason program or a Goal program.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The engine will come with a simple 2D top down view using Unity
\begin_inset Foot
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout

\family typewriter
www.unity3d.com
\end_layout

\end_inset

 and a Top down view in a text based console.
 This will allow the user of the engine to design and test their agent program
 in a fast loading console but will allow him to switch to a nicer looking
 environment once the program is working as expected.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The engine will run using .NET platform fully capable of running in the Mono
 platform as well as the windows platform, The EIS implementation is designed
 for Java and will communicate with our engine using XML encoding.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Game Engine Design
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The focus on the design of the game engine have been on making it as generic
 as possible, and we have been careful not to tie it to GOAL or EIS.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
An 
\emph on
agent
\emph default
 in the game engine is an entity capable of performing actions and gathering
 percepts.
 An 
\emph on
agent controller
\emph default
 is connected to an agent and knows how to receive actions from and send
 percepts to an environment.
 The 
\emph on
agent server
\emph default
 is responsible for attaching agents to agent controllers.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
We have implemented the general concepts of percepts and actions without
 requirements as to what they contain and how they are structured.
 Instead, the designer writes converters, which can transform percepts and
 actions to and from foreign types.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Interfacing with EIS
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
For reasons explained below, we have chosen to have each agent running as
 a single GOAL instance with its own EIS environment.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
When the environment is created, it contacts the agent server through a
 provided socket and receives another socket for communicating with the
 agent controller, to which it sends the name of the agent.
 On the server side, the agent controller requests a reference to the server
 instance of the named agent and -- if it exists -- assumes control of it.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The agent controller continously listens on the socket, until it receives
 an XML encoded 
\family typewriter
EISAction
\family default
 from the environment.
 When this happens, it uses a converter to transform it into a 
\family typewriter
GameAction
\family default
, and queues it on the agent.
 The request to receive all percepts is also sent as an action.
 When it is received by the server, it blocks until the agent has completed
 its current task, and then sends the percepts back to the environment,
 which is now listening on the socket.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
GOAL and asynchronous agents
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
We have designed our game engine so that all agents have a thread of their
 own, meaning they can perform actions and receive percepts independent
 of other agents' states.
 This allows for a more fluently running game, as agents do not stop and
 start actions in synchronization.
 It also means that the properties of agents can be more fine grained, eg.
 an agent's speed can be given as an integer indicating the milliseconds
 it takes to move from one tile to another.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
GOAL, however, seems to be designed to run all agents sequentially in a
 single thread, which means that if a single agent blocks in the call to
 get all its percepts from the environment (because the environment only
 returns when the agent’s current action is fully performed), no other agents
 can continue execution until the call returns.
 One way to circumvent this is to use 
\emph on
durative actions
\emph default
 (as explained in the GOAL user manual).
 With this method an ongoing action is started through GOAL, and in each
 percept cycle GOAL evaluates whether the agent should continue executing
 the action or choose another.
 The problem with this approach is that we are effectively polling the environme
nt through GOAL; the agent may not have any new information in each percept
 cycle, and it may sit idle, waiting for the next percept cycle when it
 has finished the action.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
In order to have a more dynamic, responsive and efficient system, we have
 chosen to launch a GOAL environment for each agent.
 This means that the agents will have to share communicate through the environme
nt.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
